Bagpipe Drones

(19) Europäisches Patentamt
European Patent Office
Office européen des brevets

(11) EP
0
998
739
B1

(12) EUROPEAN PATENT SPECIFICATION

(45) Mention of the grant of the patent:
02.10.2002
Bulletin
2002/40

(21) Application number: 98935190.3

(22) Date of filing:
22.07.1998

(51) Int. Cl.7: G10D 7/6

(86) International application number:
PCT/GB9802/188

(87) International publication number:
WO
9900/
5670 (
04.02.1999
Gazette
1999/
05)

(54)
BAGPIPE DRONES

DUDELSACKPFEIFEN

BOURDONS POUR CORNEMUSES

(84) Designated Contracting States:
DE
FR
GB
IE
IT

(30) Priority:  24.07.1997 GB 9715535

(43) Date of publication of application:
10.05.2000
Bulletin
2000/19

(73) Proprietor: Hepburn, Ralph Robertson
Edinburgh EH8 8DD (GB)

(72) Inventor:

* Hepburn, Ralph Robertson
Edinburgh EH8 8DD (GB)

(74) Representative: Allan, James Stewart
et al
Murgitroyd & Company 165-169 Scotland Street
Glasgow G5 8PL
Glasgow G5 8PL (GB)

(56) References cited:
:
US-A- 5 249 499

* "The New Encyclopaedia Britannica" , ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA, INC , CHICAGO, USA XP002084027 Entry for "Bagpipe" see page 795
* "Tutor and Text Book" 1986 , THE ROYAL SCOTTISH PIPE BAND ASSOCIATION , GLASGOW XP002084028 "How to tune the Bagpipes" see page 32, line 20 - line 33

Note: Within nine months from the publication of the mention of the grant of the European patent, any person may give notice to the European Patent Office of opposition to the European patent granted. Notice of opposition shall be filed in a written reasoned statement. It shall not be deemed to have been filed until the opposition fee has been paid. (Art. 99(1) European Patent Convention).

Description

[0001]
This invention relates to the well known Scottish musical instrument commonly called "Bagpipes". Highland bagpipes create a distinctive sound through the employment of an inflated bag which may be used to controllably supply air through, typically, three pipes or drones. The instrument is designed for outdoor use and accordingly produces sound at high volume.

[0002]
A disadvantage of the instrument, however, is that it generally lacks versatility in volume control, rendering it unsuitable for use indoors. This retards the opportunity of practising. While it is possible to acquire smaller bagpipes suitable for indoor use, the cost of purchasing a second instrument is undesirable and even, in some cases, prohibitive.

[0003]
It is recognised in the present invention that it would be of considerable advantage if a highland bagpipe could be adjusted or adapted to be suitable, interchangeably, for both indoor and outdoor use. In this specification references to indoor use will imply that the instrument is adapted to perform or function at a relatively lower volume than that typical of a highland bagpipe.

[0004]
The problem associated with conventional bagpipes is that they are costly to produce in known materials, such as wood. Furthermore, known bagpipes are large and difficult to manoeuvre. It is difficult and expensive to make smaller practise-pipes from known materials.

[0005]
According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a drone for use with a bagpipe, the drone comprising a means for connection with a plug stock on the bagpipe, the drone further comprising tubing adapted to allow gas to flow therethrough, the tubing being connected with the said means for connection with the plug stock and the tubing being adapted for fluid communication with a reed, with at least a portion of the said tubing being made from metal, and wherein said gas flow comes into contact with the said metal portion of the tubing.

[0006]
According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a set of bagpipes with two sets of interchangeable pipes or drones, said second set comprising of tubing, some or all of which is metallic.

[0007]
The second set of drones may comprise of tubing of substantially smaller diameter than tubing associated with the first set of drones.

[0008]
Preferably the metal is brass.

[0009]
Optionally, some of the tubing is made from a plastics material. The tubing may be partially coated with heat-shrunk rubber.

[0010]
Preferably the means is a conically shaped bunge, optionally made from a plastics or cork like material.

[0011]
Preferably, a reed is attached to the bunge on the opposite side of said tubing. The reed may be a single or double reed, for example.

[0012]
The tubing may comprise a plurality of overlapping aligned sections moveable in an axial direction relative to each other. The relative movement may be enabled by a sliding fit or a threaded joint between the adjacent sections.

[0013]
An example embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying Figure 1, which shows a drone in accordance with the invention adapted to be fitted to a highland bagpipe.

[0014]
A bagpipe drone is shown in Figure 1 and generally referenced 10. The drone 10 comprises a rubber bung 1 which is of conical wedge cross-section and adapted to provide a means for fixing the drone 10 to the plug stock (not shown) on a highland bagpipe.

[0015]
The bung 1 is connected to a plastic longitudinal tube 2 which connects, at its other end, to a bottom section comprising of a metallic tube 3. The metallic tube itself is connected at its opposite end to the plastic tube 2 to a top section 4 comprised of a further and larger diameter metallic tube.

[0016]
The bunge 1 is of hollow construction to allow for the passing of air through the bunge 1 and into the tubing 2,3,4. Attached to the bunge 1 on the end opposite to the section 2 is provided a reed 5 for sound production. The reed can be sized to provide a suitable volume output to allow for the bagpipe with the drones to be comfortably used indoors.

[0017]
The drone 10 illustrated in Figure 1 is commonly referred to as a tenor drone; it also being known to provide bass drones which include a "middle section" in addition to a bottom and top section. The present invention is easily adapted for either type of drone.

[0018]
In the illustrated embodiment, the plastic portion 2, bottom section 3 and top section 4 are made of telescopic tubular construction and are connected to allow for relative axial or longitudinal movement. This movement enables the drones to be tuned. In the embodiment shown in the Figure the sections are of sufficiently similar diameter to allow for a sliding fit between them, there being sufficient frictional resistance between the respective sections to facilitate sliding only when desired. When tuning is required, the top section can be rotated to assist a longitudinal movement toward or away from the bung 1.

[0019]
In the embodiment shown the portion 2 is made of plastics material, while the bottom and top sections are metallic, made, for example, from brass. Other metallic materials may be used, including for example aluminium and alloy materials. In this invention, it is appreciated that the plastic portion may be replaced by a metallic member.

[0020]
However, it is similarly recognised in the present invention that the use of metallic tubing has considerable advantages in the production of drones of this type. It is beneficial to make the internal bore of the top section and indeed the outside circumferential area of the bottom section smooth, having in fact a glass-like finish. Using metallic materials enable this to be accomplished while also providing a strong and robust drone. Having smooth mating surfaces for the junction between the top and bottom sections not only has the advantage of enabling a good sliding fit, but also improves the integrity of the sound or music provided by the drone.

[0021]
The use of metallic sections is viewed as advantageous over wood which tends to be brittle and splinter, while also being an improvement on plastics materials which generally require to be of much thicker and therefore larger construction in order to achieve the same strength characteristics.

[0022]
Furthermore, metal tubing is available in standard telescopic incremental sizes which provides a cost advantage in terms of manufacture.

[0023]
Yet further, metallic sections are less likely to wear thereby ensuring that the sliding fit maintains its integrity for a much longer period of time. In comparison, wood and plastics materials wear to a greater extent when subjected to similar use and time and this causes the sliding fit of adjacent sections to deteriorate. It is important that close tolerances are maintained to ensure that connecting sections are air tight. It is for this reason that the subject of wear is of importance in design and choice of materials.

[0024]
In an alternative embodiment the top section may comprise an internal thread at its junction with an adjacent section, such as the middle section or bottom section. The said middle or bottom section would comprise of an external corresponding thread to allow the top section and middle or bottom section to be threadably engaged. With this design, tuning can be achieved by rotating one section relative to another to thereby cause relative axial movement of the sections. With this design, it is again advantageous to use metallic materials as these are easier to machine so as to create the required thread than wood or plastics materials. Furthermore, a metallic thread is less likely to burr or wear than would a plastics or other material.

[0025]
A drone in accordance with the invention may also include a means for locking the relative positions of the tube sections.

[0026]
Further modifications and improvements may be incorporated without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Claims

1. A drone for use with a bagpipe, the drone comprising a means for connection with a plug stock on the bagpipe, the drone further comprising tubing adapted to allow gas to flow therethrough, the tubing being connected with the said means for connection with the plug stock and the tubing being adapted for fluid communication with a reed, with at least a portion of the said tubing being made from metal, and wherein said gas flow comes into contact with the said metal portion of the tubing.
2. A drone as claimed in Claim 1 wherein some of the tubing is made from a plastic material.
3. A drone as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 wherein the means is a conically shaped bunge.
4. A drone as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims wherein the tubing comprises of plurality of overlapping aligned sections moveable in an axial direction relative to each other.
5. A drone as claimed in Claim 4 wherein the relative movement is enabled by a sliding fit or a threaded joint between the adjacent sections.
6. A set of bagpipes having at least one drone in accordance with any of the preceding Claims.
7. A set of bagpipes with two sets of interchangeable pipes or drones, said second set being in accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 5.
8. A set of bagpipes in accordance with Claim 7 wherein the tubing in the second set of drones is of substantially smaller diameter than tubing associated with the first set of drones.

Ansprüche

1. Eine Bordunpfeife zur Verwendung mit einem Dudelsack, wobei die Bordunpfeife ein Mittel zur Verbindung mit einem auf dem Dudelsack befindlichen Steckverbindungs-Aufsatzstück umfasst, wobei das Mittel auch mit einem Rohr, das völlig oder teilweise aus Metall hergestellt ist, verbunden ist.
2. Bordunpfeife gemäß Anspruch 1, wobei ein Teil des Rohrs aus einem Kunststoffmaterial hergestellt ist.
3. Bordunpfeife gemäß Anspruch 1 oder 2, wobei das Mittel eine kegelförmige Stürze ist.
4. Bordunpfeife gemäß einem der vorhergehenden Ansprüche, wobei das Rohr eine Vielzahl von überlappenden ausgerichteten Abschnitten umfasst, die relativ zueinander in einer Achsenrichtung bewegbar sind.
5. Bordunpfeife gemäß Anspruch 4, wobei die relative Bewegung durch einen Gleitsitz oder eine Schraubverbindung zwischen den nebeneinanderliegenden Abschnitten ermöglicht ist.
6. Ein Dudelsack, der mindestens eine Bordunpfeife gemäß einem der vorhergehenden Ansprüche aufweist.
7. Dudelsack mit zwei Sätzen von auswechselbaren Pfeifen oder Bordunpfeifen, wobei der zweite Satz gemäß einem der Ansprüche 1 bis 5 ist.
8. Dudelsack gemäß Anspruch 7, wobei das Rohr des zweiten Bordunpfeifensatzes einen im Wesentlichen kleineren Durchmesser aufweist, als das Rohr, das mit dem ersten Bordunpfeifensatz in Verbindung steht.

Revendications

1. Un bourdon destiné à être utilisé avec une cornemuse, le bourdon comprenant un moyen de raccordement avec une souche à boîte sur la cornemuse, le moyen étant aussi raccordé à du tubage réalisé entièrement ou partiellement à partir de métal.
2. Un bourdon tel que revendiqué dans la revendication 1 dans lequel une partie du tubage est réalisée à partir d'une matière plastique.
3. Un bourdon tel que revendiqué dans la revendication 1 ou la revendication 2 dans lequel le moyen est une bonde de forme conique.
4. Un bourdon tel que revendiqué dans n'importe laquelle des revendications précédentes dans lequel le tubage consiste en une pluralité de sections alignées qui se chevauchent et peuvent être déplacées dans un sens axial les unes par rapport aux autres.
5. Un bourdon tel que revendiqué dans la revendication 4 dans lequel un ajustement coulissant ou un joint fileté entre les sections adjacentes permettent le déplacement relatif.
6. Un ensemble formant cornemuse ayant au moins un bourdon selon n'importe lesquelles des revendications précédentes.
7. Un ensemble formant cornemuse comportant deux ensembles de tuyaux ou bourdons interchangeables, ledit second ensemble étant selon n'importe laquelle des revendications 1 à 5.
8. Un ensemble formant cornemuse selon la revendication 7 dans lequel le tubage dans le second ensemble de bourdons est de diamètre sensiblement plus petit que le tubage associé au premier ensemble de bourdons.

Drawing