Promiseland Boardgame

*US20100276883A1*
US20100276883A1
(19) United States

(12) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.:  US 2010/0276883 A1
Mack (43) Pub. Date: Nov. 4, 2010

(54) PROMISELAND BOARDGAME

(76) Inventor:  Shawn Mack, Greensboro, NC (US)

Correspondence Address:
RG Patent Consulting, LLC
8275 E. Bell Rd., Apt. 2134
Scottsdale, AZ 85260 (US)

(21) Appl. No.:  12/770,949
(22) Filed:  Apr. 30, 2010

Related U.S. Application Data
(60) Provisional application No. 61/173,992, filed on Apr. 30, 2009.

Publication Classification

(51) Int. Cl.   A63F 003/00 (20060101)

(52) U.S. Cl.   273/243

(57)
Abstract

An entertainment and knowledge-based board game and method of play concerning the twelve dispensations starting with the Garden of Eden and ending with the Israelites entering into the Promise Land, designed to promote Biblical knowledge and spiritual growth in its players. The board game comprises a game board; God cards; Grace cards; breastplates of righteousness; and gems; wherein the game comprises Bible-related trivia questions; and a set of user instructions. The trivia is related to the books of Genesis through Joshua of the Old Testament.

Claim(s), Drawing Sheet(s), and Figure(s)

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION

[0001] The present application is related to and claims priority from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61/173,992, filed Apr. 30, 2009 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

COPYRIGHT NOTICE

[0002] A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. 37 CFR 1.71(d).

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

[0003] 1. Field of the Invention

[0004] The present invention relates generally to the field of games and more specifically relates to board games relating to Biblical trivia.

[0005] 2. Description of the Related Art

[0006] A board game is a game in which counters, pawns or pieces are typically placed, removed, or moved on a pre-marked surface or “board” according to a set of rules. Games may be based on chance, strategy, diplomacy or a mixture of the three and usually have a predetermined goal which at least one player aims to achieve. Early traditional board games represented a battle between two armies. Most current board games are still based on beating opposing players in terms of counters, winning position or accrual of points. Modernly, many games involve trivia in which players strive to answer challenging questions correctly to advance in their play or to garner points. The length of time it takes to learn to play or master a game can vary greatly from game to game. Learning time does not necessarily correlate with the amount or complexity of rules; some games, such as chess, have simple rules that can still lead to complex scenarios.

[0007] Games, as mentioned above, may contain trivia referring to the three lower ‘Artes Liberales’, normally including at least grammar, rhetoric and logic. Games such as Trivial Pursuit invented by Mr. Scott Abbott became popular whereby game progress is determined by a player's ability to answer general knowledge and popular culture questions. The object of the games such as the above example, Trivial Pursuit, is to move around the board by correctly answering trivia questions. Questions from the particular game mentioned are split into six categories, with each one having its own color to identify it, these being Geography (blue), Entertainment (pink), History (yellow), Arts & Literature (brown), Science & Nature (green), and Sports & Leisure (orange). The game includes a board, playing pieces, question cards and a box with small plastic wedges to fit into the playing pieces.

[0008] During the game, players move their playing pieces around a track which is shaped like a wheel with six spokes. This track is divided into spaces of different colors, and the centre of the board is a hexagonal shape. At the end of each spoke is a ‘category headquarters’ space. When a player's counter lands on a square, the player answers a question according to the color of the square, which corresponds to one of the six question categories. If the player answers this question correctly their turn continues; if the player's piece was on one of the category headquarters spaces, they collect a wedge of the same color, which fits into their playing piece. Some spaces say ‘roll again’ giving an extra roll of the die to the player which has landed there. Any number of playing pieces may occupy the same space at the same time. This game, although very exciting to play may be difficult for younger individuals to understand and play. A need exists for a trivia game suitable for all ages to understand and play.

[0009] Many people may find games difficult. As well may people may find reading non-fiction books difficult. Referring now to the Bible which includes both the Old and New Testaments; the Bible beginning with the story of ‘Creation’ (found in Genesis) and concluding with the ‘Revelation’, telling the inspired story of “God's Word” through the ages. Many individuals read, study and follow the teachings contained therein, as a guide for their spiritual lives. The first books of the Bible describe the Creation, the birth of man, the Flood, the Patriarchs, and the Exodus of the Jewish nation from the Egyptian hands of slavery to the Promise Land of Canaan led by Moses and into the Promise Land by Joshua, Moses and Joshua being servants of God to lead the Jewish nation. It is desirable that individuals of various ages would have the opportunity to learn and memorize Biblical-related trivia in an entertaining, yet meaningful way to seek spiritual growth. A need exists for a game that would effectively teach spiritual trivia to a range of ages.

[0010] Unfortunately, numerous board games on the market today typically serve solely to entertain the players, while not fully serving to educate individuals in ‘non-trivial’ matters of life and spirituality. These board games lack the challenging aspects that promote a ‘more indepth’ understanding of the Bible, its characters and teachings.

[0011] Various attempts have been made to solve the above-mentioned problems such as those found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,021,626, 5,743,528, 5,529,308, 5,224,862, and 1,562,025. This prior art is representative of board games, however none portray a religious board game with trivia questions relating to Bible teachings on the dispensations starting with the Garden of Eden and ending at The Promised Land. None of the above inventions and patents, taken either singly or in combination, is seen to describe the invention as claimed.

[0012] Ideally, a board game should be entertaining and challenging, yet promote knowledge and be manufactured at a modest expense. Thus, a need exists for an accurate Biblical knowledge-based game to promote Biblical knowledge and spiritual growth and to avoid the above-mentioned problems.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

[0013] In view of the foregoing disadvantages inherent in the known games art, the present invention provides a novel Biblical board game designed to be entertaining and to promote Bible knowledge. The general purpose of the present invention, which will be described subsequently in greater detail is to promote Biblical knowledge in an entertaining format.

[0014] The present Bible-based board game disclosed herein comprises Old Testament material including the twelve dispensations starting with the Garden of Eden and ending with the Israelites entering into the Promise Land. The religious board game described provides growth in the knowledge of the Word of God. Further the game is directed to specific books of the Word of God comprising Genesis through Joshua.

[0015] The game of the present invention is playable by children and adults preferably up to a maximum of five players. Additionally, the game comprises pictorial references as an indication of which dispensation the player is in. The game includes Bible-related trivia questions, God cards wherein the God cards include directions, and redeemable Grace cards. Further, the game includes a plurality of breastplate of righteousness' that indicates to the player which dispensation he/she is in and further comprises removably couplable gems representing the twelve tribes of Israel. Furthermore, the game may include a timing means whereby a player may be timed during a Bible reading period to locate an answer to the Bible-related trivia question(s). In this way the present invention promotes Bible reading and familiarity.

[0016] A kit is embodied herein for the Promise Land Board game system comprising: at least one game board, at least one God card, at least one Grace card, at least one die, at least one breast plate of righteousness, and at least one gem. The Board game comprises Bible-related trivia questions along with a set of user instructions may be stored and transported within a box.

[0017] In accordance with the embodiments of the present invention a preferred method of playing a Bible-based board game and rules are disclosed herein. Further, preferred components including game pieces, a game board, the breastplate and the game book cover are also described and shown with particularity.

[0018] The present invention holds significant improvements and serves as a Biblical board game. For purposes of summarizing the invention, certain aspects, advantages, and novel features of the invention have been described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any one particular embodiment of the invention. Thus, the invention may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein. The features of the invention which are believed to be novel are particularly pointed out and distinctly claimed in the concluding portion of the specification. These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with reference to the following drawings and detailed description.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

[0019] The figures which accompany the written portion of this specification illustrate embodiments and method(s) of use for the present invention, The Promise Land or The Promise™, constructed and operative according to the teachings of the present invention.

[0020] FIG. 1 shows a perspective view illustrating a game board according to an embodiment of the present invention.

[0021] FIG. 2 is a perspective view illustrating game pieces for use with the game board according to an embodiment of the present invention of FIG. 1.

[0022] FIG. 3 is a perspective view illustrating a breast plate of righteousness and corresponding gemstones according to an embodiment of the present invention of FIG. 1.

[0023] FIG. 4 is a perspective view illustrating a book cover according to an embodiment of the present invention of FIG. 1.

[0024] The various embodiments of the present invention will hereinafter be described in conjunction with the appended drawings, wherein like designations denote like elements.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION

[0025] As discussed above, embodiments of the present invention relate to a game and more particularly to a Biblical-based board game as used to provide entertainment and to improve the Bible knowledge of its players. In such a busy society, families don't often get to sit down together for dinner, let alone enjoy a board game for a night of fun. Young children and teenagers typically want to go out with their friends, the parents are often resigned to sitting in front of the television, as an entertainment means. The Internet, video games and high tech toys have been distracting families from spending quality time with each other for the last few decades. The good, wholesome days of families congregating for a night of conversation or listening to radio programs may have passed, but there is still a need for interaction, communication and learning in every family. Many children and adults may wish to increase their knowledge of the Bible, but need a more entertaining way to learn instead of merely reading and rereading the good book, the present invention looks to meet these needs.

[0026] The Promise™ generally comprises a board game, a Bible-based board game 100, based around the historical recollection of the people of Israel leaving the bondage of Egypt and entering The Promised Land. This novel Bible-based board game 100 takes players through the various obstacles that the people of Israel encountered as they entered into the land God promised. The present trivia game is ideal for players age eleven and up for a simple and fun way to enrich their knowledge of the books of the Bible including Genesis through Joshua.

[0027] Referring now to the drawings by numerals of reference there is shown in FIG. 1, a game board 110 according to an embodiment of the present invention. A Bible-based board game 100 is disclosed herein preferably comprising twelve dispensations 120 starting with the Garden of Eden 122 and ending with the Israelites entering into The Promise Land 146, wherein Bible-based board game 100 provides growth in the knowledge of the Word of God. More specifically Bible-based board game 100 is directed to the books of the Bible comprising Genesis through Joshua. Bible-based board game 100 is playable by children and adults up to a maximum of five players. It should be appreciated that in certain embodiments the number of players may comprise different numbers greater than, or less than, or equal to five players. It should also be appreciated that the scope of questions in different embodiments may not be limited to the books Genesis through Joshua. Further, it should be appreciated that the ‘board-version’ of the game may also be made electronic in other embodiments.

[0028] Bible-based board game 100 within the preferred embodiment shown comprises pictorial references as an indication of which dispensation 120 at least one player is in, helpful when playing according the method of play as described in further detail in this document. Bible-based board game 100 includes Bible-related trivia questions dealing with subject matter from the Old Testament. Bible-based board game 100 includes God cards 150, God cards 150 including directions. Bible-based board game 100 also includes redeemable Grace cards 160. Further, Bible-based board game 100 includes a plurality of breastplate of righteousness' 310, one of which is shown in FIG. 3 that indicates to the player which dispensation 120 he/she is in and further comprises gems 320 representing the twelve tribes of Israel. In certain embodiments Bible-based board game 100 may include a timing means such as a clock, watch, hourglass or other suitable timing means whereby a player is timed during a Bible reading period to locate an answer to at least one Bible-related trivia question. In this way the present invention comprises an entertaining journey of Biblical Truths that takes at least one player from the Garden of Eden 122 to The Promise Land 146. The Promise™ takes you through various obstacles that the people of Israel encountered as they entered into the land God promised, “The land flowing with milk and honey.”

[0029] The twelve dispensations 120 within the present game preferably comprise: The Garden of Eden 122; Noah's Ark 124; Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob 126; Joseph 128; Moses 130 and Egypt 132; Exodus 134; the wilderness 136; The Law 138; Tribes 140; Battles 142; Joshua 144; and the Promise Land 146, as shown. The twelve dispensations 120 representing Old Testament ‘periods’ and memorable events made available to learn with ease by the game of the present invention.

[0030] Referring now to FIG. 2, a perspective view illustrating game pieces 210 for use with game board 110 according to an embodiment of the present invention of FIG. 1. Game pieces 210 may comprise symbols such as tree(s) 220, anointing horn(s) 222, man of God 224 (Israelites), tablets 226 (Ten Commandments), Noah's Arc 228, Arc of the Covenant 230, and other such suitable symbols. Game pieces 210 may be used to keep track of the relative position on game board 110. Game pieces 210 may also be used as an educational and decorative means. Game pieces 210 may comprise different colors and sizes as shown.

[0031] Man of God 224 game piece(s) 210 may comprise various Old Testament characters such as Adam, Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Aaron, Joshua, and others. In this way the present game may cause young children to enquire as to ‘who is my game piece 210 ’ ?, whereby a parent or other may explain to them the story of the game piece 210 character. In another example a child may ask why tablets 226 comprise letters (Roman Numerals) and a more knowledgeable player may answer, “those symbolize the Ten Commandments God gave to Moses for the Israelites to follow that were written on stone tablets . . . .” In this way the present game serves as an interactive educational medium and means, as each game piece 210 has a story behind it. Additionally, game pieces 210 preferably relate to various important items as referenced to in the Bible. Game pieces 210 may comprise plastic, rubber, paper material, magnetic material manufactured in a substantially planar shape suitable to be easily and efficiently stored during periods of non-use. Each player chooses and plays with a recognizable game piece 210.

[0032] Referring now to FIG. 3, showing a perspective view illustrating breast plate of righteousness 310 and corresponding gemstones 320 according to an embodiment of the present invention of FIG. 1.

[0033] Ideally, breast plate of righteousness 310 comprises blank spaces 330, as shown which may or may not have indicia such as numbers and/or letters. The set of user instructions (Guide), as shown, instructs the player(s) which order and direction to place gemstones 320 on/in blank spaces 330 on breast plate of righteousness 310. The relative arrangement of gemstones 320 is designed to make an even number across breast plate of righteousness 310 also preferably oriented so that they ‘flow’ with the contours of breast plate of righteousness 310. Blank spaces 330 may be blank or comprise numbers, symbols, colors or other indicia. The flow of contour is represented by dotted lines. Further, gemstones 320 may represent dispensations 120 including: The Garden of Eden 122; Noah's Ark 124; Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob 126; Joseph 128; Moses 130 and Egypt 132; Exodus 134; the wilderness 136; The Law 138; Tribes 140; Battles 142; Joshua 144; and the Promise Land 146, as also discussed in FIG. 1.

[0034] Breast plate of righteousness 310 in combination with gemstones 320 serves two purposes. The first is to aid players in knowing which dispensation(s) 120 that the player may have successfully moved through; and each gemstone 320 may represent one of the twelve tribes of Israel. Gemstones 320 are removably couplable to Breast plate of righteousness 310.

[0035] FIGS. 1-3 in combination show the various components of Bible-based board game 100, entitled The Promise™, as used to play according to the method of play as shown and described subsequently in this document. Bible-based board game 100 may be manufactured and sold as kit 440 comprising the following parts: at least one game board 110; at least one said God card 150; at least one Grace card 160; at least one breastplate of righteousness 310; at least one gem 320; wherein Bible-based board game 100 comprises Bible-related trivia questions; dice; and a set of user instructions. Bible-based board game 100 may be manufactured and provided for sale in a variety of Bible-based learning/entertainment versions and applications. Upon reading this specification, it should be appreciated that, under appropriate circumstances, considering such issues as design preference, user preferences, marketing preferences, cost, structural requirements, available materials, technological advances, etc., other kit contents or arrangements such as, for example, including more or less, different shaped game pieces, different color combinations including game board, parts for example gems may be sold separately, different trivia questions as related to religious topics (both Old and New Testament-based), Bible(s), etc., may be sufficient.

[0036] Referring now to FIG. 4, a perspective view illustrating book cover 410 according to an embodiment of the present invention of FIG. 1. Book cover 410 may comprise the design as shown. Book cover 410 may be for use in enclosing the game box, on the user instructions or other such enclosing means. Book cover 410 preferably comprises indicia for The Promise™, as shown.

[0037] Referring now to a method of playing The Promise™, a friendly-competitive Bible-based board game 100 in which players race to become the first to enter The Promised Land 146 by correctly answering trivia questions and moving along the designated path on game board 110. Bible-based board game 100 may have multiple components for use with the present method, including a die with the numbers one through five, along with a letter T, (standing for trivia), individually located on each side. Game pieces may include Ark of the Covenant 230, Ten Commandments (tablets 226), tree 220, shofar (anointing horn 222), Noah's Ark 228 and an Israelite (Man of God 224). Various cards may be included with the game including God cards 150, Grace cards 160 and trivia cards 170. Grace cards 160 should be used strategically since each player only gets a pre-determined number during a single game. Also included are five Breastplates of Righteousness 310 and five sets of gemstones 320, each set representing the twelve tribes of Israel, all of which are preferably packaged within Bible-based board game 100 in a box or other suitable transportable and storable enclosure. Bible-based board game 100 comprises game board 110 and pawns (game pieces 210).

[0038] Bible-based board game 100 may be played as follows: to start the game, each player starts out with one grace card 160 with a maximum of five players being allowed to participate at once. Each player chooses a game piece 210 and an order of turn may be established by all players, preferably in a counter-clockwise direction. Each player may roll the die on their turn and move the correct number of ‘rolled’ spaces according to the path on game board 110. If a T is rolled in the start of the game the player must roll until the die lands on a number. Further, the first player is also responsible for giving out gemstones 320.

[0039] Gemstones 320 may be awarded when a player correctly answers a trivia question, redeems a grace card 160 or when a player chooses a God card 150 that allows them to advance to the next dispensation 120. These are placed on one's Breastplate of Righteousness 310 according to the guide, as shown in FIG. 3.

[0040] Upon landing within a dispensation 120, the player must correctly answer a question or redeem a grace card 160 to proceed. Players may not roll the die or move within the dispensation 120 until they have answered correctly or redeemed a grace card 160. Questions may be asked by the person on the left of the player that has pulled grace card 160. Players may redeem grace card 160 at any time without ever answering a trivia question or when they have answered incorrectly to advance to the next dispensation 120. Players may also wait until their next turn for a chance to answer another trivia question.

[0041] If a player rolls a T and has already correctly answered a question for the current dispensation 120, they must answer another question. A player may then receive a grace card 160 for a correct answer or wait until their next turn to proceed if an incorrect answer is given. If a player is on a god space 152 when they roll a T, they may answer a trivia question for the next dispensation 120 and receive gemstones 320 for a correct answer. (God spaces 152 mark the end of one dispensation 120 and the start of a new one).

[0042] If a player lands on a God space 152, they take a God card 150 off of the top of the pile and follow the direction on God card 150. If God card 150 indicates losing a turn, the player will be skipped upon their next turn. When entering dispensation 120, if one lands on a God space 152, they must answer a trivia question or redeem a grace card 152 before choosing their God card 150.

[0043] Once the trivia question has been read in its entirety, a timer, as described above is used to give players approximately three minutes to answer. Players may use a King James Bible to find the answer. Each player has three minutes to come up with an answer or redeem a grace card 160 to proceed to the next dispensation 120. If a player answers correctly, the reader confirms the answer by reading it from the card along with the included reference. If an incorrect answer is given, the reader may simply say “incorrect” and place grace card 160 on the bottom of the pile.

[0044] The objective of The Promise™ is to be the first player to correctly answer all required trivia questions and moving along the specified path ultimately enter into the Promise Land. Play continues until a participant has successfully answered all the required questions and entered into The Promised Land 146. This person is the winner.

[0045] It should be noted that the game steps described in the method of use can be carried out in different orders and with different rules according to user preference. Upon reading this specification, it should be appreciated that, under appropriate circumstances, considering such issues as design preference, user preferences, marketing preferences, cost, structural requirements, available materials, technological advances, etc., other methods of use arrangements such as, for example, different orders within above-mentioned list, elimination or addition of certain play steps, including or excluding different game pieces, game boards, etc., may be sufficient and still be covered by the scope of the disclosed game.

[0046] The embodiments of the invention described herein are exemplary and numerous modifications, variations and rearrangements can be readily envisioned to achieve substantially equivalent results, all of which are intended to be embraced within the spirit and scope of the invention. Further, the purpose of the foregoing abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally, and especially the scientist, engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology, to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application.

(57)
Claim

1) A Bible-based board game comprising twelve dispensations starting with the Garden of Eden and ending with the Israelites entering into the Promise Land.

2) The game of claim 1 wherein said game promotes growth in the knowledge of the Word of God.

3) The game of claim 2 wherein said game is playable by children and adults.

4) The game of claim 2 wherein said game comprises pictorial references as an indication of which dispensation at least one player is in.

5) The game of claim 3 further comprising Bible-related trivia questions.

6) The game of claim 5 further comprising God cards wherein said God cards include directions.

7) The game of claim 6 further comprising redeemable Grace cards.

8) The game of claim 7 further comprising a breastplate of righteousness that indicates to the player which dispensation said player is in and further comprises removably couplable gems representing the twelve tribes of Israel.

9) The game of claim 2 further comprising a timing means whereby a player is timed during a Bible reading period to locate an answer to at least one trivia question related to the Old Testament.

10) The game of claim 9 wherein said game is directed to specific books of the Word of God comprising Genesis through Joshua.

11) The game of claim 8 comprising game pieces including tree(s), anointing horn(s), man of God, tablets, Noah's Arc(s), and Arc of the Covenant(s).

12) The game of claim 1 wherein said twelve dispensations comprise:
the Garden of Eden;

Noah's Ark;

Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob;

Joseph;

Moses;

Egypt;

Exodus;

the wilderness;

The Law;

tribes;

battles;

Joshua; and

the Promise Land.

13) A Bible-based board game comprising twelve dispensations starting with the Garden of Eden and ending with the Israelites entering into the Promise Land,
wherein said game provides growth in the knowledge of the Word of God;

wherein said game is directed to specific books of the Word of God comprising Genesis through Joshua;

wherein said game is playable by children and adults up to a maximum of five players;

wherein said game comprises pictorial references as an indication of which dispensation at least one player is in;

wherein said game includes Bible-related trivia questions;

wherein said game includes God cards wherein said God cards include directions;

wherein said game includes redeemable Grace cards;

wherein said game includes at least one breast plate of righteousness that indicates to the player which dispensation he/she is in and further comprises removably couplable gems representing the twelve tribes of Israel; and

wherein said game includes a timing means whereby a player is timed during a Bible reading period to locate an answer to said Bible-related trivia question(s).

14) The game of claim 13 further comprising a kit, wherein said kit comprises:
at least one game board;

at least one said God card;

at least one said Grace card;

at least one breastplate of righteousness;

at least one gem;

wherein said game comprises Bible-related trivia questions;

at least one die; and

a set of user instructions.

15) The game of claim 14 further comprising a Bible.

* * * * *