Excerpts from:

A method and device for comprehending theoretically the historical movement.


ABSTRACT


A method and device for comprehending theoretically the historical movement. The device comprises a sentimental veil, a mere instrument, a whole surface, a modern working condition, an essential product, a poor stock-in-trade, heavy artillery, a present system, a feudal system, a great factory, a collective product, a last resort, a transcendental robe, a bribed tool.


BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS


Figure 1 is an isometric view of the progressive historical development of the proletariat

Figure 3 schematically illustrates a certain stage in the development

Figure 5 is an isometric view of the whole superincumbent strata of official society

Figure 7 is an isometric view of the undeveloped state of class

Figure 8 is a perspective view of the first conditions for emancipation

Figure 9 is a cross section of the bourgeois sense

Figure 10 schematically illustrates the French criticism of the bourgeois State

Figure 11 is a block diagram of an independent section of modern society

Figure 12 schematically illustrates the disastrous effects of machinery and division

Figure 13 schematically illustrates a vast association of the whole nation

Figure 14 is a cross section of the misty realm of philosophical fantasy

Figure 15 is a perspective view of an agrarian revolution as the prime condition

Figure 18 is a schematic drawing of The essential condition for existence

Figure 19 illustrates the first instinctive yearnings of that class

Figure 20 schematically illustrates the miraculous effects of their social science

Figure 21 is a cross section of The bourgeois clap-trap about the family

Figure 22 is a schematic drawing of the social character of property

Figure 23 is a schematic drawing of all coercive measures against the working class

Figure 24 illustrates the hallowed co-relation of parent and child

Figure 25 is a perspective view of the ultimate general 
results of the proletarian movement

Figure 26 is a block diagram of a supplementary part of bourgeois society

Figure 27 is a schematic drawing of the absolute monarchy as a counterpoise


Figure 29 illustrates the vanished status of the workman

Figure 30 schematically illustrates the great factory of the industrial capitalist

Figure 31 is a perspective view of these first movements of the proletariat

Figure 32 is a cross section of the little workshop of the patriarchal master

Figure 33 is a schematic drawing of the German philosophers of the eighteenth century

Figure 34 schematically illustrates the historical movement as a whole

Figure 35 is an isometric view of the practical absence of the family

Figure 36 illustrates the continued existence of bourgeois society

Figure 37 is an isometric view of the scattered state of the population

Figure 38 is a perspective view of a considerable part of the population

Figure 39 is a schematic drawing of the gradual , spontaneous class-organisation of the proletariat

Figure 40 is a perspective view of The individual members of this class

Figure 41 schematically illustrates the front the common interests of the entire proletariat

Figure 42 is a schematic drawing of the miserable character of this appropriation

Figure 43 illustrates a bribed tool of reactionary intrigue

Figure 44 schematically illustrates the whole surface of the globe

Figure 45 illustrates An oppressed class under the sway

Figure 46 illustrates the motley feudal ties that bound man

Figure 47 illustrates The immediate aim of the Communist

Figure 48 illustrates the feudal organisation of agriculture and manufacturing

Figure 49 is a perspective view of the great mass of the proletariat

Figure 50 is a diagrammatical view of The productive forces at the disposal

Figure 51 schematically illustrates the hostile antagonism between bourgeoisie and proletariat

Figure 52 schematically illustrates the icy water of egotistical calculation

Figure 53 illustrates the economic conditions for its emancipation

Figure 55 is a diagrammatical view of a national bank with State capital

Figure 56 is a perspective view of the exact contrary of its real character

Figure 57 illustrates all political action on the part

Figure 59 is a perspective view of the old cries of the restoration

Figure 60 illustrates the momentary interests of the working class

Figure 61 is an isometric view of a fantastic conception of its own position

Figure 62 is a schematic drawing of the revolutionary element in the tottering feudal society

Figure 63 illustrates the working-class parties of every country

Figure 64 is an isometric view of the reactionary character of their criticism

Figure 65 is an isometric view of the bombastic representative of the petty-bourgeois

Figure 66 is a schematic drawing of The first direct attempts of the proletariat

Figure 67 is a schematic drawing of the economical and political sway of the bourgeois class

Figure 68 is a perspective view of any distinctive social validity for the working class

Figure 69 is a perspective view of the Communistic abolition of buying and selling

Figure 70 is a block diagram of the first step in the revolution

Figure 71 is a diagrammatical view of these philosophical phrases at the back

Figure 72 is a perspective view of no other conclusion than that the lot

Figure 73 is an isometric view of the classical works of ancient heathendom


DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS

The present invention is itself the product of a long course. In accordance with an alternative specific embodiment, the present invention finds its fitting complement in the most slothful indolence. The present invention creates a world after its own image. The present invention endangers the existence of bourgeois property. The present invention becomes an appendage of the machine. 

According to another embodiment, the device layers the foundation for the sway. The device abolishes the right of personally acquired property. The present invention is the groundwork of all personal freedom. 

According to another embodiment, the device is the miserable character of this appropriation. The device is the non-existence of any property. According to a preferred embodiment, the invention deprives no man of power. 

In accordance with an alternative specific embodiment, the present invention finds its complement in practical absence. The invention alters the character of intervention. 

According to another embodiment, the device keeps even pace with dissolution. The invention is the most radical rupture with traditional property. The present invention is the condition for free development. The present invention comprehends the march of modern history.

According to another embodiment, the device is the necessary offspring of their own form. The present invention conceals the reactionary character of criticism. 

According to a preferred embodiment, the invention is the head of this school. The present invention is the expression of the struggle. 

According to a preferred embodiment, the invention expresses the struggle (comprising of an energetic attempt to achieve something) of one class. The invention presupposed the existence of modern bourgeois society. The invention improves the condition of every member.